---
layout: post
title: "Soon in IMUNES"
date: 2024-08-20 20:41:13 +0200
comments: false
---
### JSON Configuration

We're thrilled to announce that IMUNES is making a shift from its custom configuration format to the universally recognized JSON format. Why JSON? It's simple, readable, and supported across nearly every programming language, making it easier to work with. This change also opens the door to new possibilities for integration and automation.

IMUNES will still load your old configuration files seamlessly, automatically converting them to the new JSON format upon saving. No functionality loss _should_ happen, but if anything is missing, please report via mail/Github issues. Your feedback is invaluable as we make this upgrade.

### Live Mode

One of the most requested features is finally here: live mode. You'll now have the power to modify network topologies on the fly while your experiment is running. Whether you need to add or remove nodes, interfaces, or links, you can do it all without restarting your simulation.

### Future Features

We've been thinking a lot about how to make IMUNES more powerful and accessible, especially in educational and demonstration settings. We envision a future where you can easily share your experiments with others: whether in a classroom, at a conference, or during a technical demonstration. To make this vision a reality, we're working on separating the IMUNES backend (the daemon) from the frontend (user interface).

This separation will pave the way for new, more modern user interfaces. We're particularly excited about the potential of a web-based frontend, which will make IMUNES more approachable and versatile for a wider audience, allowing for interactive, hands-on experiences.

### Stay Tuned!

These updates mark the beginning of a new chapter for IMUNES. Keep an eye out for further announcements!

See you next time!
